---
title: "I guess I'm blogging now?"
date: 2025-06-15T16:43:00+01:00
description: "It looks like the rise of A.I. means that (human powered) content might be more relevant than ever?"
categories:
  - personal
tags:
  - personal
  - A.I.
---

Hey! Looks like I'm going to attempt blogging again?

I've tried so many times before, and I'm in awe of people like [Dave Rupert](https://daverupert.com/) and [Chris Coyier](https://chriscoyier.net/) who have blogged consistently for over a decade. It never really stuck with me, until now…

## A.I. The Elephant in the Room (that everyone has noticed)

Seeing the All Encompassing Advance of A.I.™ got me thinking: so far most of the content that it has been trained on has been generated by humans, but that looks like it's on the decline, certainly for some specific knowledge sources[^1].

Where will high-quality content come from in the future? Professional "A.I. Trainers"? New HTTP Headers to identify human-generated content?

I'm sure ChatGPT and the like can quite happily code a REST API interface, but what about those less-concrete, somewhat abstract coding challenges? Those that haven't been covered much or in most cases the answer is "it depends"? That's going to need some true insight from humans (and I'm all for us doing that kind of work instead of the grunt work of building APIs).

### What will the next generation of models use for training?

If nobody talks about the next version of an application framework, or discusses language features online, how will A.I. remain "smart"?

If the next generation [is faking it through their education](https://www.theguardian.com/education/2025/jun/15/thousands-of-uk-university-students-caught-cheating-using-ai-artificial-intelligence-survey) there's probably going to be huge cohort of people joining the workforce without actually having the bona fide skills they have written on their CV.

I think being able to evidence such skills is going to be incredibly relevant - for two reasons:

* people will know that can *actually* do what you said when you submitted an application form.
* you'll keep your brain so much sharper for those times it's really needed (or there's a service outage!).

I don't know where everything is going exactly, so excuse the jumble of thoughts.[^2] All I can say for certain is that everything is happening **fast** - I've not seen a technology be adopted quite so fast in all my life.

[^1] I'm so sorry to see the [decline of Stack Overflow](https://blog.pragmaticengineer.com/stack-overflow-is-almost-dead/) - I feel that wasn't just ChatGPT killing that off though. Something to consider another time.

[^2] Also this is my first blog post so writing something that isn't code is a bit unnatural right now!
